Add compiled braid migration guide (#1199)
seek-oss/braid-design-system: docs/Compiled Braid Migration.md

# Compiled Braid migration

`braid-design-system@32.0.0` includes some significant changes that affect how the package is
used.

## Compiled Source Code

Braid's source code is written in TypeScript.
Up until now, the `braid-design-system` package contained that same TypeScript code, pushing the
burden of compiling that code into JavaScript onto the consumer.
SEEK's front-end development toolkit [sku] knows to compile Braid's source code as it is an implicit
[compile package].

As of `v32.0.0`, Braid's source code is now distributed as JavaScript, so consumers no longer need
to compile it themselves.
This should bring noticeable build time improvements to consumers' local and CI builds.
Braid's public API is not affected by this change.

[sku]: https://github.com/seek-oss/sku
[compile package]: https://seek-oss.github.io/sku/#/./docs/extra-features?id=compile-packages

## Explicit Entrypoints

> In previous versions of Braid, it was possible to import APIs from any file within the package, even
> if that file was never intentionally exposed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions of Braid, it was possible to import APIs from any path within the package, even if that path was never intentionally exposed publicly:
```

```tsx
// Standard method of importing components
import { Text } from 'braid-design-system';

// Possible, but not recommended
import { Text } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/Text/Text';
```

The above example is relatively benign; both `Text` components resolve to the same definition, so
they're ultimately identical.
However, it was also possible to import private Braid APIs that were not intended for use by consumers:

```tsx
// These two vars are not the same!
import { vars as publicVars } from 'braid-design-system/css';
import { vars as privateVars } from 'braid-design-system/lib/themes/vars.css';

// Valid: fontFamily is available on private vars
const { fontFamily } = privateVars;

// Error: fontFamily is not available on public vars
const { fontFamily } = publicVars;
```

In the case of `vars`, the publicly exported `vars` object contains a subset of the properties available within the private `vars` object.
This was done intentionally in order to only expose the CSS variables that are relevant to Braid consumers.

> In general, private APIs should be considered implementation detail and **should not** be depended on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, private APIs should be considered implementation detail and **should not** be depended on externally.
```

> Private APIs may change behaviour/get renamed/move location/be removed at any point in time without warning, so depending on them can result in unintended breaking changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private APIs may change behaviour, be renamed, move location, or be removed at any point in time without warning, so depending on them can result in unintended breaking changes.
```

As of `braid-design-system@32.0.0`, it is no longer possible to import APIs that are not exposed from explicit entrypoints.
While no existing **public** APIs have changed, this is a breaking change that will affect any consumers that depend on private APIs.

Common usages of private Braid APIs are documented below, as well as suggested remediations.
If you depend on a private API that is not listed below, or you depend on an API that has

> no public alternative, please reach out in the #braid-support Slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no public alternative, please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel.

[#braid-support]: https://seekchat.slack.com/channels/braid-support
```

> Common usages of private Braid APIs are documented below, as well as suggested remediations.
> If you depend on a private API that is not listed below, or you depend on an API that has
> no public alternative, please reach out in the #braid-support Slack channel.
> 
> ### Issues Caused by Automatic Imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Patterns Requiring Migration

Common usages of private Braid APIs are documented below, as well as suggested remediations.

> If you depend on a private API that is not listed below, or you depend on an API that has
no public alternative, please reach out in the #braid-support Slack channel.

- [Internal Import Paths](#internal-import-paths)
- [Component Prop Types](#component-prop-types)
- [Hook Types](#hook-types)
- [Custom Icons](#custom-icons)

### Internal Import Paths

Typically cause by automatic import suggestions by IDEs.
```

entrypoints.

```diff
// Either of these can occur, both will cause errors in Braid v32
-import { apac } from 'braid-design-system/lib/themes';
-import apac from 'braid-design-system/lib/themes/apac';
// Correct way to import themes
+import apac from 'braid-design-system/themes/apac';
```

#### Styling APIs

Automatic imports can result in `vars`, `atoms` and `responsiveStyle` being imported via private imports.
To migrate, these should be imported via the public `css` entrypoint:

```diff
// These will all cause errors in Braid v32
-import { vars } from 'braid-design-system/lib/themes/vars.css';
-import { atoms } from 'braid-design-system/lib/css/atoms/atoms';
-import { responsiveStyle } from 'braid-design-system/lib/css/responsiveStyle';
// Correct, and less code too!
+import { vars, atoms, responsiveStyle } from 'braid-design-system/css';
```

The `vars` object imported from `braid-design-system/lib/themes/vars.css` contains extra properties
compared to the `vars` object imported from `braid-design-system/css`.
If you depend on any of these extra properties and cannot find alternatives to replace them with,

> please reach out in the #braid-support Slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel.
```

### Component Prop Types

Custom components that forward props to Braid components may need access to the types of some of the
Braid component's props.

> These types should be derived from the comopnent itself using the `ComponentProps` type available
> from `react`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These types should be derived from the component itself using the `ComponentProps` utility type from `react`.
```

```diff
// Error in Braid v32
-import { TextProps } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/Text/Text';
// Derive props from `Text` instead
+import { Text } from 'braid-design-system';
+import { ComponentProps } from 'react';

+type TextProps = ComponentProps<typeof Text>;

interface MyComponentProps {
  tone: TextProps['tone'];
}
```

> ### Autosuggest props

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Autosuggest props
```

If your component wraps Braid's `Autosuggest` component, then you need to derive its props in a
slightly different way.
This is because `Autosuggest` is a generic component, so just using `ComponentProps<typeof Autosuggest>` will

> get you the prop typeinstantiated with the type `unknown`, effectively allowing any value to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get you the prop type instantiated with the type `unknown`, effectively allowing any value to be
```

```

The correct way to derive `Autosuggest`'s props is to use [typescript 4.7's instantiation expression feature][instantiation expression].
This feature allows you to create a specialized version of a generic function that only accepts
specific types. Since functional components are just functions, we can do this for components too:

```tsx
import { ComponentProps } from 'react';
import { Autosuggest } from 'braid-design-system';

// A specialized Autosuggest component that only accepts `string`s
const StringAutosuggest = Autosuggest<string>;
type AutosuggestProps = ComponentProps<typeof StringAutosuggest>;

// Equivalent to AutosuggestValue<string>
type Value = AutosuggestProps['value'];

const autosuggestValue: Value = {
  text: 'myValue',
  // value is of type string
  value: 'foo',
};

// Error: value must be of type string
autosuggestValue.value = 123;
```

This has the obvious caveat that you must be on at least typescript 4.7 in order to use this
feature.
Your app will need to be on at least `sku@11.6.0` in order to use typescript 4.7.

[instantiation expression]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-7-beta/#instantiation-expressions

> ### Toast types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hook types

Deriving the return type from a hook.

#### useToast type
```

```diff
// Error in Braid v32
-import { Toast } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/useToast/ToastTypes';
// Derive type from useToast instead
+import { useToast } from 'braid-design-system';

+type ShowToastFunction = ReturnType<typeof useToast>;
+type Toast = Parameters<ShowToastFunction>[0];

interface MyComponentProps {
  toast: Toast;
}

const MyComponent = ({ toast }: MyComponentProps) => {
  const showToast = useToast();

  return (
    <Button onClick={() => showToast(toast)}}>
      Show toast
    </Button>
  );
};
```

[usetoast docs]: https://seek-oss.github.io/braid-design-system/components/useToast

### Custom Icons

If you use the private `useIcon` API in a custom icon within your app, there are a few options you
should evaluate in order to migrate off this API:

1. Evaluate the usage of your custom icon across your app. If your icon is only used at one specific size,
1. Consider whether the icon could be replaced by an existing [Braid icon][braid icons]. Braid's iconography suite has expanded over the years, and your custom icon may have a suitable replacement available in Braid.

> 1. If there is no suitable replacement for your custom icon available within Braid, then it could be worth adding to Braid. If your icon represents something generic, and not something product specific (e.g. product logo), then it could be a good candidate for Braid. Please reach out in the #braid-support Slack channel if you think your custom icon would fit into Braid's iconography suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If there is no suitable replacement for your custom icon available within Braid, then it could be worth adding to Braid. If your icon represents something generic, and not something product specific (e.g. product logo), then it could be a good candidate for Braid. Please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel if you think your custom icon would fit into Braid's iconography suite.
```

1. If none of the above options are suitable for your custom icon, then you can migrate to the `IconRenderer` API. By using `IconRenderer`, you can benefit from the consistent styling and alignment afforded by the Braid icon API, with a few restrictions. Please ensure you read the [Braid custom icon docs][custom icon docs] to ensure you understand these restrictions while also adhering to accessibility requirements.

[braid icons]: https://seek-oss.github.io/braid-design-system/foundations/iconography/browse/
[custom icon docs]: https://seek-oss.github.io/braid-design-system/foundations/iconography#using-custom-icons

> ### Icon Slot Prop Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Icon Slot Prop Type
```

# Compiled Braid migration

> `braid-design-system@32.0.0` includes some significant changes that affect how the package is
> used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release of `v32` includes some significant changes that affect how the package is compiled before distribution.
This document provides guidance for consumers needing to migrate away from accessing Braid's internal source APIs.
```

```tsx
// These two vars are not the same!
import { vars as publicVars } from 'braid-design-system/css';
import { vars as privateVars } from 'braid-design-system/lib/themes/vars.css';

// Error: fontFamily is not available on public vars
const { fontFamily } = publicVars;

// fontFamily is available on private vars
const { fontFamily } = privateVars;
```

In the case of `vars`, the publicly exported `vars` object contains a subset of the properties available within the private `vars` object.
This was done intentionally in order to only expose the CSS variables that are relevant to Braid consumers.

In general, private APIs should be considered implementation detail and **should not** be depended on externally.
Private APIs may change behaviour, be renamed, move location, or be removed at any point in time without warning, so depending on them can result in unintended breaking changes.

As of `braid-design-system@32.0.0`, it is no longer possible to import APIs that are not exposed from explicit entrypoints.
While no existing **public** APIs have changed, this is a breaking change that will affect any consumers that depend on private APIs.

> Common usages of private Braid APIs are documented below, as well as suggested remediations.
> If you depend on a private API that is not listed below, or you depend on an API that has
> no public alternative, please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel.
> 
> [#braid-support]: https://seekchat.slack.com/channels/braid-support
> 
> ### Issues Caused by Automatic Imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Patterns Requiring Migration

Common usages of private Braid APIs are documented below, as well as suggested remediation.

> If you depend on a private API that is not listed below, or you depend on an API that has
no public alternative, please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel.

[#braid-support]: https://seekchat.slack.com/channels/braid-support

- [Internal Import Paths](#internal-import-paths)
- [Component Prop Types](#component-prop-types)
- [Hook Types](#hook-types)
- [Custom Icons](#custom-icons)

### Internal Import Paths

Typically caused by automatic import suggestions by IDEs.
```

### Hook types

Deriving the return type from a hook.

#### useToast type

Braid does not expose a public `Toast` component.
Instead, toasts are shown by calling the function returned from the [`useToast` hook][usetoast docs].
If you wish to expose the parameters of this function on a component as props, then the types for those parameters can be derived from the `useToast` hook:

```diff
// Error in Braid v32
-import { Toast } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/useToast/ToastTypes';
// Derive type from useToast instead
+import { useToast } from 'braid-design-system';

+type ShowToastFunction = ReturnType<typeof useToast>;
+type Toast = Parameters<ShowToastFunction>[0];

interface MyComponentProps {
  toast: Toast;
}

const MyComponent = ({ toast }: MyComponentProps) => {
  const showToast = useToast();

  return (
    <Button onClick={() => showToast(toast)}}>
      Show toast
    </Button>
  );
};
```

[usetoast docs]: https://seek-oss.github.io/braid-design-system/components/useToast

### Custom Icons

If you use the private `useIcon` API in a custom icon within your app, there are a few options you
should evaluate in order to migrate off this API:

> 1. Evaluate the usage of your custom icon across your app. If your icon is only used at one specific size,
> 1. Consider whether the icon could be replaced by an existing [Braid icon][braid icons]. Braid's iconography suite has expanded over the years, and your custom icon may have a suitable replacement available in Braid.
> 1. If there is no suitable replacement for your custom icon available within Braid, then it could be worth adding to Braid. If your icon represents something generic, and not something product specific (e.g. product logo), then it could be a good candidate for Braid. Please reach out in the #braid-support Slack channel if you think your custom icon would fit into Braid's iconography suite.
> 1. If none of the above options are suitable for your custom icon, then you can migrate to the `IconRenderer` API. By using `IconRenderer`, you can benefit from the consistent styling and alignment afforded by the Braid icon API, with a few restrictions. Please ensure you read the [Braid custom icon docs][custom icon docs] to ensure you understand these restrictions while also adhering to accessibility requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Migrate to a Braid icon

Braid’s iconography suite has expanded over the years, and your custom icon may have a suitable replacement available in Braid. Consider whether the icon could be replaced by an existing [Braid icon][braid icons]. 

#### Contribute your icon back to Braid

If there is no suitable replacement for your custom icon available within Braid, then it could be worth adding to Braid. If your icon represents something generic, and not something product specific (e.g. product logo), then it could be a good candidate for Braid. Please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel if you think your custom icon would fit into Braid’s iconography suite.

#### Using custom icons

If none of the above options are suitable for your custom icon, then you can migrate to the `IconRenderer` API. By using `IconRenderer`, you can benefit from the consistent styling and alignment afforded by the Braid icon API.
Please ensure you read the [Braid custom icon docs][custom icon docs] to ensure you understand the restrictions while also adhering to accessibility requirements.
```

const StringAutosuggest = Autosuggest<string>;
type AutosuggestProps = ComponentProps<typeof StringAutosuggest>;

// Equivalent to AutosuggestValue<string>
type Value = AutosuggestProps['value'];

const autosuggestValue: Value = {
  text: 'myValue',
  // value is of type string
  value: 'foo',
};

// Error: value must be of type string
autosuggestValue.value = 123;
```

This has the obvious caveat that you must be on at least typescript 4.7 in order to use this
feature.
Your app will need to be on at least `sku@11.6.0` in order to use typescript 4.7.

[instantiation expression]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-7-beta/#instantiation-expressions

#### Icon Slot Prop Type

If you wish to provide an icon slot on a component, you can derive the type of an icon component from an existing Braid icon component:

```tsx
// Derive type from a basic icon with no props, such as `IconAdd`
import type { IconAdd } from 'braid-design-system';
import { ComponentProps, ReactElement } from 'react';

type IconProps = ComponentProps<typeof IconAdd>;

interface MyComponentProps {
  icon?: ReactElement<IconProps>;

> }

Reviewer: ````suggestion
}
```
````

# Compiled Braid migration

The release of `v32` includes some significant changes that affect how the package is compiled before distribution.
This document provides guidance for consumers needing to migrate away from accessing Braid's internal source APIs.

## Compiled Source Code

Braid's source code is written in TypeScript.
Up until now, the `braid-design-system` package contained that same TypeScript code, pushing the
burden of compiling that code into JavaScript onto the consumer.
SEEK's front-end development toolkit [sku] knows to compile Braid's source code as it is an implicit

> [compile package].

Reviewer 2: Fixed typo without having to change the anchor

```suggestion
[compiled package][compile package].
```

> As of `v32.0.0`, Braid's source code is now distributed as JavaScript, so consumers no longer need

Reviewer 2: Do we want to consistently use `v32`?

```suggestion
As of `v32`, the `braid-design-system` package is distributed as JavaScript, so consumers no longer need
```

to compile it themselves.
This should bring noticeable build time improvements to consumers' local and CI builds.

> Braid's public API is not affected by this change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Braid's public API remains unchanged and is not affected by the aforementioned modification.
```

[sku]: https://github.com/seek-oss/sku
[compile package]: https://seek-oss.github.io/sku/#/./docs/extra-features?id=compile-packages

## Explicit Entrypoints

In previous versions of Braid, it was possible to import APIs from any path within the package, even if that path was never intentionally exposed publicly:

```tsx
// Standard method of importing components
import { Text } from 'braid-design-system';

// Possible, but not recommended
import { Text } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/Text/Text';
```

The above example is relatively benign; both `Text` components resolve to the same definition, so
they're ultimately identical.
However, it was also possible to import private Braid APIs that were not intended for use by consumers:

```tsx
// These two vars are not the same!
import { vars as publicVars } from 'braid-design-system/css';
import { vars as privateVars } from 'braid-design-system/lib/themes/vars.css';

> // Error: fontFamily is not available on public vars
> const { fontFamily } = publicVars;
> 
> // fontFamily is available on private vars
> const { fontFamily } = privateVars;

Reviewer 2: I'd swap these two around and call out the fact that it's by design.

```suggestion
// fontFamily is available on private vars
const { fontFamily } = privateVars;

// Error: fontFamily is not available on public vars. This is by design; see explanation below
const { fontFamily } = publicVars;
```

```

In the case of `vars`, the publicly exported `vars` object contains a subset of the properties available within the private `vars` object.
This was done intentionally in order to only expose the CSS variables that are relevant to Braid consumers.

In general, private APIs should be considered implementation detail and **should not** be depended on externally.
Private APIs may change behaviour, be renamed, move location, or be removed at any point in time without warning, so depending on them can result in unintended breaking changes.

> As of `braid-design-system@32.0.0`, it is no longer possible to import APIs that are not exposed from explicit entrypoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `v32` it is no longer possible to import APIs that are not exposed from explicit entrypoints.
```

And do we want to draw attention to this change with an emoji and/or dividers?

```suggestion
---

⚠️ In `v32` it is no longer possible to import APIs that are not exposed from explicit entrypoints. ⚠️

---
```

> While no existing **public** APIs have changed, this is a breaking change that will affect any consumers that depend on private APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While no existing **public** APIs have changed, this is a breaking change only for consumers that depend on private APIs.
```

Or with a bit more emphasis:

```suggestion
While no existing **public** APIs have changed, this is a breaking change _only for consumers that depend on private APIs_.
```

-import { atoms } from 'braid-design-system/lib/css/atoms/atoms';
-import { responsiveStyle } from 'braid-design-system/lib/css/responsiveStyle';
// Correct, and less code too!
+import { vars, atoms, responsiveStyle } from 'braid-design-system/css';
```

The `vars` object imported from `braid-design-system/lib/themes/vars.css` contains extra properties
compared to the `vars` object imported from `braid-design-system/css`.
If you depend on any of these extra properties and cannot find alternatives to replace them with,
please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel.

### Component Prop Types

Custom components that forward props to Braid components may need access to the types of some of the
Braid component's props.
These types should be derived from the component itself using the `ComponentProps` utility type from `react`.

```diff
// Error in Braid v32
-import { TextProps } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/Text/Text';
// Derive props from `Text` instead
+import { Text } from 'braid-design-system';
+import { ComponentProps } from 'react';

+type TextProps = ComponentProps<typeof Text>;

interface MyComponentProps {
  tone: TextProps['tone'];
}
```

> #### Autosuggest props

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Autosuggest Props
```

# Compiled Braid migration

The release of `v32` includes some significant changes that affect how the package is compiled before distribution.
This document provides guidance for consumers needing to migrate away from accessing Braid's internal source APIs.

## Compiled Source Code

Braid's source code is written in TypeScript.
Up until now, the `braid-design-system` package contained that same TypeScript code, pushing the

> burden of compiling that code into JavaScript onto the consumer.

Author: Consumers _are_ still going to be extracting CSS on their end, even with compiled braid, so I feel like it's not worth mentioning.

```

The correct way to derive `Autosuggest`'s props is to use [typescript 4.7's instantiation expression feature][instantiation expression].
This feature allows you to create a specialized version of a generic function that only accepts
specific types. Since functional components are just functions, we can do this for components too:

```tsx
import { ComponentProps } from 'react';
import { Autosuggest } from 'braid-design-system';

// A specialized Autosuggest component that only accepts `string`s
const StringAutosuggest = Autosuggest<string>;
type AutosuggestProps = ComponentProps<typeof StringAutosuggest>;

// Equivalent to AutosuggestValue<string>
type Value = AutosuggestProps['value'];

const autosuggestValue: Value = {
  text: 'myValue',
  // value is of type string
  value: 'foo',
};

// Error: value must be of type string
autosuggestValue.value = 123;
```

This has the obvious caveat that you must be on at least typescript 4.7 in order to use this
feature.
Your app will need to be on at least `sku@11.6.0` in order to use typescript 4.7.

[instantiation expression]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-7-beta/#instantiation-expressions

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Icon Slot Prop Type

If you wish to provide an icon slot on a component, you can derive the type of an icon component from an
existing Braid icon component:

```diff
// Error in Braid v32
-import { UseIconProps } from 'braid-design-system/lib/hooks/useIcon';
// Derive type from IconAdd instead
+import type { IconAdd } from 'braid-design-system';
+import { ComponentProps } from 'react';

+type IconProps = ComponentProps<typeof IconAdd>;

interface MyComponentProps {
-  icon?: FunctionComponent<UseIconProps>;
+  icon?: IconProps;
}

```
```

#### Contribute your icon back to Braid

If there is no suitable replacement for your custom icon available within Braid, then it could be worth adding to Braid. If your icon represents something generic, and not something product specific (e.g. product logo), then it could be a good candidate for Braid. Please reach out in the [#braid-support] Slack channel if you think your custom icon would fit into Braid’s iconography suite.

#### Using custom icons

If none of the above options are suitable for your custom icon, then you can migrate to the `IconRenderer` API. By using `IconRenderer`, you can benefit from the consistent styling and alignment afforded by the Braid icon API.
Please ensure you read the [Braid custom icon docs][custom icon docs] to ensure you understand the restrictions while also adhering to accessibility requirements.

[braid icons]: https://seek-oss.github.io/braid-design-system/foundations/iconography/browse/
[custom icon docs]: https://seek-oss.github.io/braid-design-system/foundations/iconography#using-custom-icons

> #### Icon Slot Prop Type
> 
> If you wish to provide an icon slot on a component, you can derive the type of an icon component from an
> existing Braid component with an icon slot:
> 
> ```diff
> // Error in Braid v32
> -import { UseIconProps } from 'braid-design-system/lib/hooks/useIcon';
> // Derive type from Button instead
> +import { Button } from 'braid-design-system';
> +import { ComponentProps, ReactElement } from 'react';
> 
> +type ElementProps<T> = T extends ReactElement<infer P> ? P : never;
> +type IconProps = ElementProps<ComponentProps<typeof Button>['icon']>;
> 
> interface MyComponentProps {
> -  icon?: FunctionComponent<UseIconProps>;
> +  icon?: FunctionComponent<IconProps>;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```diff
// Error in Braid v32
-import { TextProps } from 'braid-design-system/lib/components/Text/Text';
// Derive props from `Text` instead
+import { Text } from 'braid-design-system';
+import { ComponentProps } from 'react';

+type TextProps = ComponentProps<typeof Text>;

interface MyComponentProps {
  tone: TextProps['tone'];
}
```

#### Autosuggest props

If your component wraps Braid's `Autosuggest` component, then you need to derive its props in a
slightly different way.
This is because `Autosuggest` is a generic component, so just using `ComponentProps<typeof Autosuggest>` will
get you the prop type instantiated with the type `unknown`, effectively allowing any value to be
passed into the `Autosuggest` :

```tsx
import { ComponentProps } from 'react';
import { Autosuggest } from 'braid-design-system';

type AutosuggestProps = ComponentProps<typeof Autosuggest>;

// Equivalent to AutosuggestValue<unknown>
type Value = AutosuggestProps['value'];

const autosuggestValue: Value = {
  text: 'myValue',
  // value is of type unknown
  value: ['this', 'can', 'be', 'literally', 'anything'],
};

// No errors!
autosuggestValue.value = [1, 2, 3, 4, { whatever: 'you want' }];
```

> The correct way to derive `Autosuggest`'s props is to use [typescript 4.7's instantiation expression feature][instantiation expression].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The correct way to derive `Autosuggest`'s props is to use [TypeScript 4.7's instantiation expression feature][instantiation expression].
```

This feature allows you to create a specialized version of a generic function that only accepts
specific types. Since functional components are just functions, we can do this for components too:

```tsx
import { ComponentProps } from 'react';
import { Autosuggest } from 'braid-design-system';

// A specialized Autosuggest component that only accepts `string`s
const StringAutosuggest = Autosuggest<string>;
type AutosuggestProps = ComponentProps<typeof StringAutosuggest>;

// Equivalent to AutosuggestValue<string>
type Value = AutosuggestProps['value'];

const autosuggestValue: Value = {
  text: 'myValue',
  // value is of type string
  value: 'foo',
};

// Error: value must be of type string
autosuggestValue.value = 123;
```

> This has the obvious caveat that you must be on at least typescript 4.7 in order to use this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This has the obvious caveat that you must be on at least TypeScript 4.7+ in order to use this
```

feature.

> Your app will need to be on at least `sku@11.6.0` in order to use typescript 4.7.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your app will need to be on at least `sku@11.6.0` in order to use TypeScript 4.7.
```

[instantiation expression]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-7-beta/#instantiation-expressions

#### Icon Slot Prop Type

If you wish to provide an icon slot on a component, you can derive the type of an icon component from an existing Braid icon component:

```tsx
// Derive type from a basic icon with no props, such as `IconAdd`
import type { IconAdd } from 'braid-design-system';

> import { ComponentProps, ReactElement } from 'react';

Reviewer 2: Should we consistently use `import type` for React type utilities?

```suggestion
import type { ComponentProps, ReactElement } from 'react';
```
